Story Recapped here. Today, I’m going to explain
a drama and horror film called, “Interview with
the Vampire: The Vampire Chronicles.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
In modern-day San Francisco, a young
journalist named, Daniel Molloy,
is interviewing a man named,
Louis de Pointe du Lac,
who claims to be a vampire. Daniel is
reluctant to believe him, but Louis’s
supernatural abilities and appearance convince
him to listen to the unnatural man’s story.
In 1791, in New Orleans, 24-year-old Louis is a
wealthy plantation owner who had just lost his
wife and infant in childbirth. He quickly sinks
into depression and spends his time and money on
gambling and prostitutes. He wishes nothing
more than to join his family in the grave.
One night as he’s gambling, Louis gets into a
fight and the other gambler threatens to shoot
him, which Louis happily accepts. The gambler puts
his gun away and Louis and his woman for the night
exit the tavern to seek more privacy. Unbeknownst
to Louis, a vampire lurks in the darkness,
watching him. Louis and the prostitute end up at
the docks where a pimp threatens him with a knife.
All of a sudden, the pimp and the prostitute are
snatched away and killed. Louis, too drunk to be
aware, falls into a pile of sacks. The vampire
finally reveals himself as Lestat de Lioncourt
and bites his neck. They fly off the ground as
he sucks Louis’s blood and asks him if he’s had
enough of death. Louis wants nothing but to die so
the vampire drops him on the banks of Mississippi.
Louis survives the waters but becomes extremely
sick. Lestat visits him in his mansion and offers
to take all the pain and death away forever.
When morning comes, Louis sees his last sunrise
and visits his family’s grave. There, Lestat
bites his neck again and makes Louis drink
from his own blood, finally turning him into
a newborn vampire. After his transformation,
he takes Louis into one of the coffins and lets
him sleep in the darkness. Louis wakes up the next
evening with a thirst for blood. He joins Lestat
at a tavern as he kills a prostitute for Louis’s
first meal. Louis joins him in drinking
her blood but refuses to take her life.
Back at the mansion, Louis is still hungry and
senses the sweet blood of one of her servants,
Yvette. He fights the temptation and Lestat
makes him drink rat blood instead. Drinking
animal blood can help a vampire survive but it
won’t help keep their youthful looks and powers.
Lestat teaches Louis the ways of the vampire. He
takes him hunting with him among the aristocrats.
Lestat makes two to three kills every night,
starting off with a young and beautiful girl.
On one particular night, as they attend a party,
Lestat sets hit eyes for the widow, St. Claire,
and her young lover. Louis learns that Lestat can
read other people’s thoughts and he tells him that
St. Claire had her lover murder her husband.
Evildoers are easier to kill and they taste
better. Lestat takes off with her lover while
Louis accompanies St. Claire as she walks her dogs
on the mansion grounds. Lestat kills the young man
easily but Louis finds himself distracted by the
yapping dogs. Suddenly, Lestat hears a scream and
finds St. Claire crying over her murdered dogs.
He breaks the widow’s neck and reprimands
Louis for almost getting them caught.
Louis gets angry and pushes Lestat against
a tree, but he only commends his fury,
stating that this is the reason why he chose Louis
in the first place. Lestat laughs at him and tells
him that he can choose to eat what he wants, but
he will wait until Louis finally turns around.
Refusing to kill humans, Louis feeds himself on
any animal he can find around the plantation.
This causes great alarm for his servants who
think the land is cursed and are performing
rituals to banish the evil. At the mansion, Louis
begs Lestat for the meaning of this wretched life,
but Lestat doesn’t know. Instead, he urges Louis
to go out and feast on the local cuisine but
without success. Lestat takes off on his own to
quench his thirst. Meanwhile, Yvette begs her
master to help the plantation and send Lestat
away. Louis finally gives in to his starvation
and drinks Yvette’s blood. As the servants
storm their master’s mansion, Louis kicks the
door open and hands them Yvette’s dead body. He
reveals himself as a vampire and sets them free.
He tells them to run away for the land is cursed
and starts burning down his home. Lestat arrives
and is angry at Louis for ruining the only
wealth they had left. The loss of their mansion
doesn’t dampen Lestat and soon enough he rents
rooms for them near the center of New Orleans.
One night, Lestat has two prostitutes over and
kills one of them. He kisses the second woman’s
chest and she gasps as she sees the pool of blood
staining her dress. He opens her wrist and drains
her blood into a glass and hands it over to Louis.
He refuses to drink the blood and tosses it away,
angering Lestat. Lestat plays with the woman some
more, sticking her into a coffin and pretending
that she’s dead. The woman begs Louis for her life
but he still refuses to take any part of the game.
Lestat finally kills the woman,
angry at his companion’s cowardice.
The city is now in the midst of a strong
plague, killing hundreds of families by the day.
As he stumbles through the houses, Louis comes
across a crying child, Claudia, whose mother has
just died from the plague. Claudia is all alone
with no family to look for her. At this point,
Louis is so hungry that he digs his fangs into
Claudia’s neck. Realizing what he has done, Louis
leaves Claudia on the bed as Lestat catches up to
him, laughing at his hypocrisy. Louis runs away
into the sewers but Lestat finds him by following
the corpse of rats. He convinces Louis to go back
to the apartment where he has taken Claudia. Not
wanting the girl to die, Louis gives in and lets
Lestat give the girl a new life. Claudia drinks
Lestat’s blood, almost draining him to death,
and then begins to transform into a newborn
vampire. For her first meal, she finishes off
one of their maids. Now a vampire, Claudia becomes
their adopted daughter. Louis is forced to stay,
wanting to protect Claudia and give her the love
and attention that he was never able to give to
his own child. They soon move to a bigger home
and Lestat pours all his attention to Claudia,
filling the lonely void in his existence. He buys
her dolls and even gets a seamstress to make her
new clothes. Claudia, with her undisciplined
thirst, kills off the seamstress and Lestat
scolds her, reminding her to never kill inside
the house. Louis dotes on Claudia just as much,
letting her sleep with him in his coffin until she
wants one of her own. Claudia is a true prodigy
and learns fast. She lures her victims with
an innocent act and then kills them instantly.
Some nights, she and Lestat would go hunting
and eliminate entire families at once.
30 years passed by and even though Claudia never
grew older, her mind was that of a fully-grown
woman. She doesn’t understand why she didn’t grow
up to be like the woman she saw at the docks.
One evening, Lestat visits her in her bedroom
and gives her another doll. Tired of being
treated like a little girl, she lashes out
at Lestat and starts throwing away her dolls,
revealing the corpse of the woman she saw at the
docks, hidden away in her bed under her toys.
It turns out that Claudia had killed and
kept her in the hopes to become like her.
Louis and Lestat are shocked to see the
corpse and run after her in the house.
Claudia cuts off her own hair to look older, but
to her surprise, her hair just magically grows
back. She demands to know who made her the way
she is and cuts Lestat’s face with the scissors.
Lestat, angry at his adopted daughter, vows to
never tell her how to turn a mortal into a vampire
and orders her to get rid of the corpse.
Claudia storms out and Louis follows her.
Louis finally reveals to her that she will
never grow old, die, or grow up. He also
takes her to her original home where they had
found her and told her how he had fed on her
and how Lestat turned her into a vampire. Claudia
decides that she hates them both and runs away.
After a night of killings, Louis returns home
and finds Claudia who eventually forgives him
for turning her into a vampire. She then suggests
that they leave Lestat and go off on their own,
but he tells her that he will never
let them go. But Claudia has a plan.
One night, as Lestat is playing the piano, Claudia
approaches him and pretends to make peace, taking
him to see her gifts. She brings him, two boys,
on the couch, and Lestat, having not fed enough,
immediately drinks the boys’ blood. All of
a sudden, he tastes laudanum on his lips. He
turns to Claudia, realizing what she had done.
The laudanum had killed the boys instantly but
it kept their blood warm. She reminds him of the
lesson he taught her, to never drink dead blood.
Lestat struggles on the floor and calls for Louis,
but Claudia grabs him by the neck and slits his
throat with a knife. When Louis arrives, he finds
Lestat choking on his own blood on the floor. They
watch as whatever life left in Lestat leaves his
body. They get rid of his body by dumping it in a
crocodile-infested swamp. Despite hating Lestat,
Louis feels terrible for ending his life the way
it did. Lestat made him the way he is after all.
After that, they quickly booked a passage for the
old world, Europe. While waiting for the boat,
Claudia learns all that she can about their kind
through myths and legends. As they’re packing
their luggage, Claudia sets her pet birds free
while Louis answers a knock on their door. To
his surprise, it’s Lestat, back for revenge,
alive but barely surviving. He grasps Louis’s neck
but Louis manages to push him back out. He carries
Claudia back to the house but finds Lestat playing
by the piano. He managed to survive by feeding on
crocodiles, snakes, toads, and whatever else he
could find in the swamp. He lunges at them and
throws Louis aside. As he runs for Claudia, Louis
tosses a lamp at him, immediately igniting him
on fire. Lestat stumbles around and sets the
house on fire as Louis and Claudia run away.
The whole building is engulfed in flames and they
make it to the ship just as soon as it sets sail.
They reach the Mediterranean and search every
village, ruin, and country, for anyone like
their kind. At one point, they even began to
believe that they were the only vampires left.
Louis and Claudia arrive in Paris in
1870 and start living aristocratic lives.
Just as soon as they’d given up
their search, a vampire named Armand
finds Louis. Armand invites them to his theatre
of vampires and reminds him to remember his name.
Louis takes Claudia to the theatre and cautions
her for these vampires will have different
powers and they might read her thoughts. The
show begins and it turns out that Armand’s
theatre is a group of vampires pretending to
be human actors telling stories about vampires.
They watch the show as Armand appears on the stage
and takes the life of a beautiful young woman.
Unbeknownst to the audience, Armand actually
kills the woman for real, and the rest of the
group feasts on the woman’s body as the curtains
close. After the show, Armand takes Louis and
Claudia to the crypts and introduces them to his
clan. As a welcome, Armand lets Louis try the
blood of a young boy they’re keeping. Louis asks
him the origins of their kind, but to his dismay,
even Armand, who’s known to be the longest vampire
who ever lived at 400 years, doesn't hold the
answer. Louis’s fears are confirmed. There is
no meaning to this existence. As they leave the
crypts, Armand reads Louis’s thoughts about how
he has wronged Lestat and asks him about this.
Louis refuses to answer but Armand threatens him
that there is only one crime amongst vampires.
To kill another of your own kind means instant
death. When they get home, Claudia tells Louis
that Armand wants her gone so that he could
make Louis his own companion, but he reassures
her that it will never happen. The next evening,
Louis visits Armand in the crypts again. Armand
tells him that Claudia is in danger because it is
forbidden to turn someone so young into a vampire.
The clan is already suspecting them of killing
their maker, Lestat, and is planning something
sinister. Armand insists Louis send Claudia away
for her own safety, but he tells him that he will
leave too if she does. Before Louis can leave,
Armand lures him back, baiting him with answers to
his endless questions. He tells Louis that if he
stays with him, he will help him know the meaning
of being a vampire. Armand reveals that he knew
Lestat and suddenly, Louis feels a bit of peace.
He knows he has found a true teacher in
Armand that Lestat could have never been.
When Louis arrives home, he’s shocked to see
that Claudia has taken a woman named Madeleine
from the streets. Madeleine is a humble shop owner
who voluntarily wants to become a vampire after
her only daughter has passed away. In Claudia,
Madeliene sees a child who cannot die and someone
whom she can care for and love forever. Claudia
demands him to turn Madeliene into a vampire
so that she could be her new companion since
Louis has already found a new one in Armand.
Claudia begs him to turn Madeliene into
a vampire and he eventually gives in.
He bites her and transforms her into
their kind. Claudia goes to the balcony
to thank Louis but they’re suddenly
kidnapped by members of Armand’s clan.
All three are taken to the crypts. Death is
sentenced upon Claudia and Madeliene and Louis
is subjected to eternity in a box. He screams
for Armand as he’s separated from the only thing
he’s ever known. Louis is carried deeper into
the crypts and is forced into a steel coffin.
The vampires seal him in and drag him down
a set of stairs, taking him deeper into the
tunnels. They hoist him up to the hole in the
wall and start sealing up the hole with stones.
Meanwhile, Claudia and Madeleine are locked into
a room with a gaping hole above where they can
see the moon. Claudia knows that when the sun
rises, it would be the end for both of them.
They huddle and embrace each other in
a corner as they wait for their death.
When morning comes, Claudia wakes Madeleine and
they shield each other from the glaring sun.
But the rays soon hit them, burning their skin as
they let out piercing screams. All of a sudden,
Armand changes his mind and digs Louis out of the
wall. He opens the coffin and lets him escape.
Louis runs around the crypt looking for Claudia
and finally finds them in the room. It’s too late,
the sun has burned their skins to ashes, leaving
only a pile of bones behind. He weeps as he mourns
her death, knowing that he will have to live an
eternity without seeing her face or hearing her
voice ever again. While the vampires are sleeping,
Louis douses their coffins with gasoline and sets
the whole place on fire. The fire instantly kills
the clan as he escapes his way out of the theatre.
He faces another member of the clan and cuts
him in half with a scythe. He drops the weapon
and walks out of the burning building. He shields
himself from the sun until a carriage approaches.
He jumps into it with Armand and they escape
together. Armand offers him one final chance
to stay with him, but Louis refuses, telling him
that he knew Armand let Claudia and Madeleine die.
For years Louis wanders on his own visiting
Greece, Italy, and all the ancient lands,
until he finally decides to go back to America.
Through the innovation of technology, Louis sees
his first sunrise in 200 years through films. In
the spring of 1988, he returned to New Orleans.
One night as he’s walking, he catches the
scent of ancient death from an old house.
He arrives at a room and sees corpses of rats on
the floor. There, weak and decrepit sits Lestat,
who has somehow managed to make it through the
decades drinking vermin blood. Lestat tells him
how he’s been dreaming of this moment and how
Claudia should have never been one of them.
As Louis walks towards him, Lestat backs away,
but he reassures him that he means no harm.
As they talk, a passing helicopter
and its searchlights frighten Lestat,
thinking that it’s the sun. Louis comforts him as
Lestat begs him to help him become the old Lestat.
Louis refuses his offer and leaves. Back in the
present time, Louis admits to the journalist
that he never knew what happened to Lestat after
that. He feeds on anyone who crosses his path,
but since Claudia’s death, he has never been
the same. And that’s the end of Louis’s story.
Daniel is shocked to learn that it’s the
end of his story. He tells Louis that he
must have brought him there for a reason
and he’s willing to become his companion.
He declares that he won’t let the story end
like this but Louis holds him up in the air by
the collar, reminding him of his mortality. When
he’s dropped down to the floor, Louis disappears.
Daniel hurriedly takes his things and escapes to
his car. As he’s driving, he places one of the
tapes to see if it recorded correctly. He sighs
with relief as he hears Louis’s voice on the tape.
All of a sudden, a hand grabs Daniel from the back
and pulls him to the backseat. It’s Lestat! He
bites Daniel and tosses him aside. Lestat regains
his youth and takes control of the steering wheel.
He looks over at Daniel, his soon-to-be new
companion, and gives him a chance he’s never had.